---
title: "Smartphones are evil"
date: 2022-12-20T07:52:03+02:00
showTitle: true
draft: true
toc: false
images:
tags:
  - dystopian
---

I was on a subway ride today, going home after a long day at high school. I was
minding my own business, mainly listening to [a song to get me *in the
feels*](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cl5Vkd4N03Q).

I randomly noticed a mom sitting across with her daugther. She looked tired,
depressed and miserable, clearly giving everything she had to raise her
daughther. She was probably even working multiple jobs, the child's father
probably not being present in their lives, judging by the fact that she was
alone in a subway train late at night. 

Her daughther was about **4 years old** and she was **obsesively using her
smartphone**. It is obvious that in the given circumstances, the only way her
mom could cope with raising her daughter is occupying her attention with a
smartphone. This is what the world has come to. Her daughter was barely
responsive to her mother's questions and requests, to the point where she had
to drag her to leave at the correct station, not moving her eyes from the
screen for even a second.

This scene made me feel horrible for what our society has become and maded me
feel very sorry for the mom, as she was doing the best she could do to take
care of her daugther in her overwhelming condition. Her 4 year old daughther
looked like she was on drugs, which is a highly disturbing scene to witness.

Among all of the questions that this scene raised in my head, one of them
caught my deepest attention: *What will the daughter be like in 20 years time?*
Would this excessive cellphone usage have any effect on her mental capacity in
the long run, or are cellphones just a harmless means of etnertainment?
